Imagine if I were to do the following.
Simulate ten standard normals and take
their sample variance and do that over and
over and over again.
Then I get a distribution
of sample variances.
And that, that's exactly the salmon
colored density right here is if I
were to repeat that process thousands and
thousands of times.
What I was talking about, that Rissotto
was talking about on the previous slide is
merely that this distribution,
if I were to sample enough of
them, its center of mass
will exactly be one.
The variance from the original
population that I was sampling from.
The standard normal,
which has variance one.
The same will also be true for
sample variances of 20 observations
from this distribution.
So I sampled sta, 20 standard normals,
take their sample variance and
then repeat that process over and
over and over again to get
an idea about the distribution of sample
variances of 20 standard normals.
And then I get this more aqua color
distribution, that's the second one, and
it is also centered at one.
The same thing when I do it for 30.
But notice what happens, the variance, the
population variance in the distribution
of the sample variance gets more
concentrated as I have more data.
So in other words, saying that more
data is going to yield a better,
more concentrated estimate around what
the sample variance is trying to estimate.
In this case, they're all trying to
estimate one cause they're sample from
a population with variance one.
Recall that earlier on in the lecture
we found that the variance of
a die roll was 2.92.
So imagine if I were to roll ten dice.
And take the sample variance of
the numbers that were on sides facing up.
Then if I we're to take those ten dice and
repeat that process over and over and
over again, then I would get a very good
idea about the population distribution
of the variance of ten die rolls.
I would have to do it a lot, but
fortunately on the computer I
can do it thousands of times,
which is what I did right here.
And notice that the distribution of
the variance of ten die rolls is exactly
centered around 2.92, the variance of
the population of a single die roll.
And as I go to 20 and
30 it's still centered in the same place.
But it becomes more concentrated
about what it's trying to estimate.
What this is basically saying
is that the variance is
a good estimate of
the population variance.
That as we collect more data,
the distribution of the sample variance
gets more concentrated about what
it's trying to estimate and
that it's centered in the right place.
In other words, that it's unbiased.
This unbiasness is why we divide
by n minus 1 instead of n.
That makes it unbiased.